This question will develop your facility in using statistical programming software, which in this course
will be Stata. It will also give you an opportunity to see the theoretical concepts we discuss in lecture at work in a real
dataset, which will give you a better understanding of their meaning and usefulness.
The file NLSYdata.dta (available on Canvas) has data from the National Longitudinal Survey of Youth. It contains
the following variables:
• Race (1: Hispanic; 2: Black; 3: Neither Hispanic nor Black)
• Sex (1: Male; 2: Female)
• afqt1980: AFQT is a test-based measure that purports to capture mental competence, similar to IQ. This variable
shows the individual’s percentile (1 being the lowest, 99 the highest) on an AFQT exam taken in 1980.
• afqt1989: Similar to the variable above, but this exam was taken in 1989.
• income2018: Dollar value of income earned in 2018.
• educ: Highest grade the respondent has completed. “13” indicates 1 year of college, “14” indicates 2 years of
college, etc.
Use this dataset to answer the questions below. To receive credit, you must include written (or typed)
answers to the questions themselves, along with a Stata DO file that you used to generate them.
(a) (4 points) Plot the “non-parametric regression” of income on the 1989 AFQT score. In other words, for each value
1, 2,..., 99 for afqt1989, calculate the average value of income2018, and plot the relationship. Do you think the
relationship looks linear? Where do you see the most apparent non-linearity? Hints:
• The command “collapse y, by(x)” will create a new dataset that contains one observation for each value of x,
and the corresponding average value of y. That command is extremely helpful for this question.
• The command “scatter y x” will then be very helpful for visualizing the results of the “collapse” command.
You can save the resulting scatterplot with the “graph export” command.
• Note that the “collapse” command will overwrite NLSYdata in Stata’s memory, so to do the remainder of the
problem set, you will have to reload the original dataset.
(b) (3 points) Regress income2018 on afqt1989, assuming the error term is homoskedastic. Report the constant and
slope coefficients, as well as their standard errors.
(c) (3 points) Repeat step b), but use heteroskedasticity-robust standard errors instead. (Hint: the “regress” command
has an option, “robust”, which will implement heteroskedasticity-robust standard errors.)
(d) (3 points) Now use the “generate” command to make a new variable, which simply subtracts 50 (the median)
from the AFQT variable. Rerun the regression from part c), but using this alternative measure of AFQT as the
“x-variable.” How have the constant and slope coefficients changed? Briefly explain why.
(e) (2 points) Compare a person whose value of afqt1989 is 25 to someone whose value is 75. According to the linear
model, how much higher is the latter’s income expected to be?
(f) (4 points) Run a linear regression of income2018 on educ, using heteroskedasticity-robust standard errors. (By
the way, you should use heteroskedasticity-robust standard errors for the rest of the semester, even if I forget to
remind you!) Report the constant and slope coefficients, along with their standard errors.
4
(g) (3 points) What is the 95% confidence interval on the coefficient on educ? Can you reject the null hypothesis that
the true coefficient is 10,000 at the 5% level?
(h) (3 points) Create a new variable which reports income reported in thousands of dollars; do this by dividing
income2018 by 1,000. Then, regress this on educ. How do the constant and slope coefficients differ, if at all, from
what you reported in part f)?
(i) (3 points) Create a new variable which reports the number of decades (rather than years) someone has spent in
school; do this by dividing educ by 10. Then, regress income2018 on this new variable. How do the constant and
slope coefficients differ, if at all, from what you reported in part f)?
(j) (2 points) According to your regression in part f), how much more would you expect someone with 5 years of
education to earn relative to someone with 4 years?
(k) (4 points) Use a non-parametric regression to estimate the expected change in income from going from 4 years of
education to 5. Do this by comparing average earnings of people with 5 years to the average for people with 4
years. How many observations does the dataset have with education of 4 and 5 years, respectively?
(l) (4 points) Which estimate do you think is more reliable for the impact of the 5th year of education on earnings:
your answer from part j) that used a linear model, or your answer from part k) that used a non-parametric model?
Why do you think it does a better job?
