70 total points) This question will develop your facility in using statistical programming software, which in this course
will be Stata. It will also give you an opportunity to see the theoretical concepts we discuss in lecture at work in a real
dataset, in non-linear models and models with binary lefthand-side variables.
The file NIPA.xls (available on Canvas) contains data on GDP, Government spending (G), and Investment spending
(I), on a quarterly basis in the United States from 1947Q1 through 2024Q2.
(a) (1 point) Run:
i. “import excel using ”NIPA.xls”, clear firstrow”
ii. “generate year = year(observation date)” then browse and look at the variable “year”
iii. “generate month = month(observation date)” then browse and look at the variable “month”
iv. “generate quarter = ceil(month/3)” then browse and look at the variable “quarter”
v. “generate t = yq(year,quarter)” then browse and look at the variable “t”
vi. “format t %tq” (do you notice what changed?)
vii. “rename GPDIC1 I”
viii. “rename GCEC1 G”
(b) (3 points) Now plot G and I from 1947Q1 through 2024Q2 with the following command: “twoway (line G t)
(line I t)”. Save this image with “graph export “GI time.png”, replace” and submit it with your solutions. Do
investment and government spending seem to rise in tandem, or do they move in opposite directions?
(c) (2 points) Regress I on G and report the slope coefficient and its standard error. How does that relate to your
answer to the previous question.
(d) (1 point) We will now transform the data to look at the quarterly changes in G (“dG”) and I (“dI”). Run:
i. “tsset t”
ii. “generate dG = D.G”
iii. “generate dI = D.I”
(e) (5 points) Now create a scatterplot of dI and dG from 2002Q2 through 2022Q2 with the following command:
“scatter dI dG”. Save this image and submit it with your solutions. Would you say the overall relationship looks
positive or negative?
(f) (6 points) Run a regression of dI on dG and report the estimate of the slope coefficient and the p-value for the
test that it is equal to 0. How does this align with your answer to the prior question?
1
(g) (7 points) Test for a non-linearity in the relationship by running a regression of dI on dG and dG2. (You can
start by running “generate dG sq = dGˆg2”.) Report the estimated coefficients on dG and dG2, along with their
p-values. Based on these results, is there strong evidence for a non-linear relationship?
(h) (3 points) Report and interpret the findings of the F-test from Stata’s output. What hypothesis is it testing, what
did it find, and how does it compare to your answer in the previous part?
(i) (5 points) Based on your findings in the previous part, does the relationship have a maximum value or a minimum
value? Regardless of your answer, at what value of dG does the model predict this maximum/minimum occurs?
How do you interpret this?
(j) (1 point) Create an indicator variable for whether C increased by running:
i. “generate dI pos = 0”
ii. “replace dI pos = 1 if dI > 0 & !mi(dI)”
(k) (5 points) Regress the indicator you just created on dG using a linear model. Report the constant and slope
estimates. According to this model, what is the likelihood that I increases in a quarter if dG = 10 in that quarter?
(l) (10 points) Regress the indicator you just created on dG using a Logit model. Report the constant and slope
estimates. According to this model, what is the likelihood that I increases in a quarter if dG = 10 in that quarter?
